---
layout: post
title: Hospital Lab
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [ArtofData]
---

###  Which County has the most hospital beds per person?

Through the hours spent on the code, I found that New York was the county that had the most hospital beds per person. I got that it had 14.28522 hospital beds per person.

### Discuss how I obtained the dataset

To begin the lab I reread the homework assignment that I completed. Through the API homework, I found the wind direction of four locations, but programmed it using keys, the url and specific location. I translated that knowledge to this lab, where now we were given a url with another end url and it led to a website which gave the values of many different columns with different ID numbers. The key was to translate that website to a CSV and then clean it to find the ultimate question of the county with the max beds per person. I followed the process for the API part and then once I got the initial CSV cleaning it was difficult. I didn't know which number to standardize it to, but I ultimately picked 2000. I couldn't think of an easier way, so I literally manually changed each value in the beds column in the csv. Whenever the value was 2000 HAB, I kept it, but if it was 1000 HAB, I multiplied that value of beds by 2. And if it was 500 HAB I multiplied by 4. The ratio initally confused me, but when actually writing it out using a proportion it made more sense. Writing down things definitely is a method that I will continue using in the future. Another method that I will do is meeting with Mr. Lee more often during labs. This was definitely the most challenging lab, because there were so many parts to it, and I was only able to meet with Mr. Lee much later in the week which left me little time to actually complete it so I needed an extension among other problems with time that I had. I met with Mr. Lee twice and it actually helped so much and I am truly grateful for the time. I had issues standardizing, and that first meeting really helped get my through it. Overall, I did a manual approach for the CSV where I first got different HAB values through my API code and then changed them all to 2000 HAB. The API code was similar to the homework, except you had to use a while loop. 


### Reflection

Without a doubt this was the toughest assignment for me. Struggling on the homework definitely was a factor, but I think the biggest one was all the different steps needed. I talked a lot with Jake about the homework and he reported to me after a meeting with Mr. Lee that he figured out that we needed to use a while loop in the API part to create the CSV. Without his initial comment, there was no way I was going to get passed that step. Then, when I made the CSV after the pipe step, standardizing was confusing. I didn't know which number to go to or whether I had to program it or simply edit the excel file. I waited til Monday where Mr. Lee lead me in the right direction and I wrote down the first row. If 2.172856 is equal to 500 people, then x bed is equal to 2000 people. Using that ratio, I realized that I just have to multiply by 4. I continued that process throughout the CSV whenever the number wasnt 2000 HAB. I saved the CSV and then imported it in a new file. This file is where I began the code and actually calculated the beds per person. We did most of the code through talking in class (SO HELPFUL BTW). I realized then and after in anohter meeting that actually saying what is going on helps you code so much easier. I made some minor adjustments to the code that we had initially with Mr. Lee and then added another function that would print the value of the key and the key name next to it which will answer the question. There are a couple of things that stick out to me in this lab. First is that it is so important to meet with Mr. Lee. Second, spending hours on something is totally worth it when you finally achieve what you are looking for. Also, don't always do stuff manually because it takes a ton of time and you can easily code a for loop to do it for you. This lab got the best of me, I worked so hard and am proud of what I accomplished. I'm happy with what I am submitting and know what I have to do for the future.